>> Kevin Powell: So there's one thing you
might have noticed along the way you might
not have, but
if you have a mobile navigation.
One problem that can happen is
when you're resizing the browser.
If it's opened, it's fine, but if it's
closed, you could run into the situation
where, when you get to here, it's opened,
and then it transitions away because of
all the transitions and
stuff we've said on it.
And it's just because all of a sudden
it's getting to that media query and then
the transition kicks in and it goes and
hides off and it's a little bit annoying.
I will say I get asked
about this all the time and
my usual answer is the only people that
are ever resizing their browsers in these
situations are other developers or
yourself.
It's, a regular user's not doing anything.
So it might not be something you
actually have to worry about, but
if it really does bother you,
there's ways that we can solve it.
So I'm just gonna do this in my
main.js this is where we have our
navigation stuff already.
And for this,
we want to be using a ResizeObserver.
So if you've never used a ResizeObserver,
they look like this just
new resize observer.
There's older ways of doing this,
they're probably perfectly fine just
the ResizeObservers just really
good at just doing this one thing.
So from a performance standpoint,
it's really good.
[LAUGH] doing what it does.
So, yeah, just a new ResizeObserver there.
So I'm just gonna bring
this one in right here,
resizeObserver is a new ResizeObserver.
And it's just going to do something every
time the page is resizing, basically.
When we're doing this, we can have
it looking for different things, but
in this case, all I want it to do is look
at the body and when the page is resizing,
we can add this document .body.class list
and just some sort of class on there.
It could be a resizing,
it could be a no animations.
There's a number of different things
that you could have it put on there, so
we can come in here, document.body.class
list, and we said resizing, right?
So resizing, but anything that
would make sense for you, just so
when things are resizing, we wanna make
sure nothing's actually happening, and
that means we wanna go
to our CSS file now.
This makes sense in the utilities.
So I'll just put it all the way
at the bottom of my utilities.
And we probably don't need it.
Yeah, I'll put it at the top actually,
just so we don't have to scroll so
far right here.
Because of the way we have our layers set
up, you probably don't need to do this,
but what I'm gonna do is just
transition none important.
Again, I don't think we need
the important on here, but if,
yeah, I don't think we really need it.
We'll try it without, but
you could throw the important on there
if you really just wanna make sure.
But using layers, it should make it so
we really don't need to have it there.
And animation, none.
I'm putting animation none.
I don't have any animations on my page.
And I would encourage testing in this
situation if you do have animations
because this would just
turn off the animations.
The other alternative is
an animation play-state of
paused I think it's paused yeah, paused.
So if you had animations running
on your page and someone resizes,
just the animations in their current state
would actually pause where they were.
And then when you finish resizing,
they would start going again.
Maybe you don't wanna have this at all.
Maybe you only wanna do this for
that one specific thing.
So you'd be more specific
with what you're targeting,
instead of doing it as this bulk thing for
your entire page.
I also realized I did it on that class,
but I wanna do it for
all the children that are in there.
So, absolutely every element that's
inside my resizing is going to get no
transitions and the animation,
either the play state paused or
just turning off the animations,
it depends on your use case.
So, when we do this, we're partway there.
We're gonna be adding that on there,
but we obviously also need to be able
to remove the class from it
when the animation stops.
And to do this, we're gonna use
the request animation frame, and
then we need it to actually after that,
tell it to stop observing.
No, sorry, we need to actually tell it to
observe the body itself for the resizing.
The reason we're using request
animation frame is because when we
resize the browser,
the browser is repainting constantly.
So it's just repaint,
repaint, repaint, repaint.
So it's in the terms of the browser.
These are all animation
frames that are going on.
And so when we stop resizing is when
it gets to the request animation frame,
there's no more animation frames running,
so
then we can remove the resizing
from the class list right there.
So that's why I'm using
a request animation frame.
There's other techniques that
use set timeout instead, just so
after a certain period of time passes,
then it would remove it.
But this works really well, and it hooks
into how the browser likes to work.
So in our JavaScript file right here,
we can bring that in.
So we're just requestAnimationFrame.
We're removing the resizing from there.
And then that last part that we had here
was just, we need to say resizeObserver.
We have to actually tell
it to do something.
We created the resizeObserver.
It doesn't know what to watch yet.
So then we say,
resizeObserver, observe, and
then we tell it that we want
to look at the document.body.
And it wasn't working and we saw that
it wasn't adding on the body there,
just because I had class list,
but I forgot to put add, so
it never added it to the class
there when we were resizing.
So now you can see, as long as that's
resizing, you can see it's on there, and
then as soon as I let go,
the class goes away.
And so if that resizing is on there,
when we go larger or
smaller, we don't get it firing at all.
And then if we're not doing it,
the class goes away.
So then the animations work as expected.